---
layout: page
title: dissertation
description: Jorge Mangonnet - Ph.D. Candidate in Political Science, Columbia University
keywords: 
---

### Property Formation, Labor Repression, and State Capacity 

The creation of absolute private ownership in land is a basic aspect of modern statecraft. An extant scholarship postulates that local traditional elites, such as landlords or chiefs, have historically opposed freehold tenure and cadastral mapping out of fear of losing customary privileges and autonomy from the state. Political rulers in Western Europe initiated long-term campaigns to defeat local powerholders and impose these schemes. But in much of the postcolonial world, where bureaucratic capabilities are low, the support of nonruling classes to reforms in land tenure is crucial.

How do policymakers specify and allocate property rights in contexts of limited administrative capacity? And why do local elites support state-backed land tenure systems that allegedly disempower them? In my dissertation, I contend that the erosion of forced labor relations can prompt the enactment of liberal laws that confer individual ownership. In the absence of unambiguous restrictions on access to land, a shock to the labor repressive power of local elites can spur mobility and induce shortages as free workers can claim *de facto* property rights. This leads local elites and rulers to bargain for a property order that curbs elites' preexisting control of land resources while selectively invalidating the claims of free workers, thus provoking tenure insecurity and reducing alternatives to rural employment. 

I test this theory using a novel dataset on land formalization, labor markets, and parliamentary voting from Imperial Brazil (1822-1889) collected over ten months of archival work. I study how a slaveholding planter class endorsed the Land Law of 1850---Brazil's first property law---as a response to a British ban on the Atlantic slave trade. This legislation made purchase the only means by which land could be alienated and subsidized the transportation of immigrant workers to replace slaves. First, I show that landowners in parishes with a greater slave population were more likely to comply with the Land Law by voluntarily regularizing their landholdings as private freeholds. Regularization involved fiscal obligations and barriers to encroachment but delivered the logistical resources (e.g., revenue and information on the location and boundaries of plantations) the imperial government finance the arrival of an immigrant workforce. Second, I show that individual parliamentarians who were slaveowners were more likely to vote in favor of the Land Law. Lawmakers who owned slaves were willing to cede the control of land---based on colonial customs from the 1500s---to the imperial state to facilitate the advent of cheap wage labor and ensure the survival of the plantation economy.

My dissertation shows how property formation in weak states is the result of a co-production effort between local elites and central governments, and not of unilateral state action. Moreover, it crucially questions the neoclassical view on the origins of property rights in land. According to this literature, individual landownership in Western nations emerged when arable land became an scarce resource relative to the society's demands. If land isabundant, rational agents should then forgo ownership. In this work, I show that exclusionary property rights in countries like Brazil or Australia---where land was free and abundant---emerged as a political instrument to demobilize a free wokforce and skew labor markets. 


